# Undergraduate Thesis
By Qingyuan Cai, Peking University
## Title
Construction, Analysis and Application of Single-Cell Mesenchymal Cell Atlas in Common Pulmonary Diseases
## Abstract
Pulmonary diseases are among the most common types of diseases worldwide, posing a great threat to people's health. The prevention and treatment for these diseases are of great societal value. In this paper, a comprehensive lung mesenchymal cell atlas was constructed by integrating large-scale public single-cell RNA sequencing data from normal lungs as well as four common pulmonary diseases, namely Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, Coronavirus disease 2019, and lung cancer. By means of computational methods such as differential gene expression, pathway enrichment, and pseudotime trajectory analysis, we detailed the functional heterogeneity of mesenchymal cells and distinct cellular composition among the four diseases, particularly highlighting the proportions of myofibroblasts and aberrant endothelial cells. To demonstrate the application of this cell atlas, we transferred the cell type labels from the atlas to a cohort of non-small cell lung cancer patients undergoing neoadjuvant immunotherapy combined with chemotherapy. Through comparisons and calculations, we found that immunotherapy strengthened immune response, but may simultaneously lead to some degree of pulmonary fibrosis. In addition, we observed significant enrichment of a group of myofibroblasts with low expression of CCL19 in patients with poor treatment outcomes, suggesting a possible mechanism of immunotherapy resistance. In summary, we constructed a pulmonary mesenchymal cell atlas through single-cell data analyses, which deepened our understanding of the roles played by mesenchymal cells in common pulmonary diseases and cancer immunotherapy, and provided new insights into the clinical diagnosis, treatment, and drug development for those diseases.
